Charlene Jarrell & Sviatoslav Rutkovskyi (Project 10)
TCSS 445
Winter 2025

FINAL PROJECT SUBMISSION: README FOR TRAIL DATABASE UI


DESIGN DETAILS

UI Program Language: Java
DBMS: mySQL
Operating Systems Tested On: macOS (ARM), Windows


SETUP INSTRUCTIONS

1) Run the SQL file, "Project10_queries_MODIFIED.sql", in mySQL to create the database schema and records
2) Open the Java file, "Main.java:, in your preferred IDE (we used IntelliJ)
3) Ensure the JAR file, "mysql-connector-j-9.2.0.jar", is in the project.

   Note, if using IntelliJ, you must add the JAR dependency with the following steps:
            a) File > Project Structure... > Modules
            b) Click the +, then "Add JARs or Directories"
            c) Select the .jar provided in our Project10_zip folder
            d) Click Apply
   If using a different IDE, you will need to lookup how to add dependency for your IDE.

4) At the top of the Main class, look for the following line where the instance for the database connection
   is created:

   connection = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/project10_db", "root", "1231");

4) Ensure the port number, "localhost:3306", matches your local mySQL connection
5) Change the password from "1231" to your mySQL root password
6) Run the program. A small window should popup called "Trail Database".


RUN BASIC SCENARIOS

View Table:     Many of the tables can be viewed by selecting the table from the first drop-down menu and clicking
                the "View" button.

Add Record:     A new record can be inserted into some of the tables. This is done by selecting the table from the
                second drop-down menu and clicking "Add". A new window will popup to input the data for the record.
                The data inputted must match the format of the other records in that table. For example, when
                inserting a new user review, the date_reviewed must be in the format YYYY-MM-DD. Also, a the user_id
                and trail_id must already exist in the USER and TRAIL tables for them to be used in a new record.
                Once all text fields have a valid input, click "Save" and the record will be added to the table.

Show Table with Filter: The third drop-down menu provides options for filtering some of the tables by a given
                        parameter. Select the desired option, type a value in the text field to filter by, then click
                        the "Show" button. The value typed into the text field must be  correct data type for the
                        provided query. For example, if filtering by a rating or dollar amount, a number must be
                        entered into the text field, not a word or characters.


RUN ANALYTICAL QUERIES
Analyze Data:   The last drop-down menu contains options for running some analytical queries on the database.
                Simply, choose one of these options, then click the "Analyze" button.